#summary instructions for installing SfePy on Windows

This page contains instructions for simple and easy installation of SfePy onto Windows.

*Step by step Instructions:*

1. Minimum 4 Gigabytes of free disk space is required, Due to the installed size of python(x,y) and msysgit.

2. Download the latest python(x,y) (http://www.pythonxy.com/) windows installer, and make a *Full installation* in the default installation directory.

3. Download the latest pyparsing (http://sourceforge.net/projects/pyparsing) windows installer (Python version 2.6) and install it in the default installation directory.

4. Download the latest mysysgit (http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/) windows installer (get the file that begins with "msysGit-fullinstall") and install it in the default installation directory.

5. Download the latest umfpackpy (http://code.google.com/p/umfpackpy/) zip archive and follow the instructions below-

a) Extract the *umfpackpy_0.1.zip* to your convenient location in Hard disk, Lets assume it's extracted in C:/. Now there will be two files on the extracted folder, *ez_setup.py* and *scikits.umfpack-5.1.0-py2.6-win32.egg*.

b) Start msys and write the following code to go to the extracted folder.

*$ cd /c/umfpackpy_0.1/*

c) Write the following code on msys to install the UMFPACK library for python.

*$ ez_setup.py scikits.umfpack-5.1.0-py2.6-win32.egg*

6. Download the latest sfepy (http://code.google.com/p/sfepy/) tarball and follow the instructions below-

a) Extract the sfepy tarball to your convenient location in Hard disk, Lets assume it's extracted in C:/.

b) Start msys and write the following code to go to the extracted folder.

*$ cd /c/sfepy_folder_name/*

c) Write the following code on msys to Compile SfePy C extensions.

*$ python setup.py build_ext --inplace --compiler=mingw32*

7. You should now have a working copy of SfePy on Windows, Please help aid SfePy development by running the built-in tests. Run the *runTests.py* in python IDLE or Write the following code on msys.

*$ runTests.py --filter-less*


For detailed and advanced instructions of windows installation, look at http://code.google.com/p/sfepy/wiki/PythonXYWindowsInstall